The demise of marriage can hit you like a train with no red flashing lights, with no warning.  All of a sudden, nothing makes sense and everything does all at once.  Or can can creep up on you and unravel you slowly, like a cancer.

My then-fiancé went to boot camp on October 1st, 2014. It was a rough few weeks with no contact. I knew he was going through hell and, in a way but no where close, so was I. I wrote to him every single day for 2.5 months, spraying my letters with perfume because he asked me to.  I didn't leave out a single detail of my mundane days without him; Twitter, family drama, our dog's misbehavior, and every day tasks became the subject of each letter.  We bonded even closer while he was gone and decided that we'd get married as soon as we could.  That day ended up being his first day of Christmas leave, December 19th, 2014.  

I picked him up at the airport, me in an emerald green lace dress and him in his navy dress blues.  He was so handsome I thought I'd explode, and I could tell by hugging him that his arms and back were more muscular and toned. Seeing him that day for the first time in 79 days was one of the best days of my life.  We went from the airport to the courthouse, got our license, and were married that day in Norfolk, VA.  

Arthas (our Dachshund) peed on him when we arrived home; he was so excited!  And our first time together as husband and wife was perfect and amazing.  It truly felt like our wedding night as we rediscovered each other.  I'll spare you the details. ;)

He was due back to Chicago on January 5th.  We said our goodbyes and it sucked.  I drove up there 2.5 weeks later to spend the weekend with him. He got his orders to San Diego the following week. I started the necessary paperwork (cancelling our lease, military stuff, etc) to move a few days later. In just 3 days, I packed up our entire house & car and it took another 3 to drive with a uhaul and car in tow 2,700 miles to California. Just 9 days after my arrival, he left to meet his ship in Hawaii (they were deployed at the time and on their way back). While he was gone, I moved into our newly acquired home alone and started to unpack, keeping myself busy while they sailed home and arrived at the end of February. It was one of the most stressful times of my life. I was alone in a state I'd never been to, a city I'd just met, without any friends.

All of this happened in 5 months time.  It was crazy, WE are crazy! But all of a sudden, my husband's life was turned upside down, along with mine to a much minor degree.  Suddenly, he went from a lazy gaming nerd working a few hours a week to the bread winner.  All of the responsibility of our new life was on his shoulders and the stress he kept to himself.  One thing we've learned is that our communication had definitely been lacking.  He didn't want to burden me with work stress or any of his fears and I didn't want to stress him out more by pushing it, so I let it be.  

The spring was mostly us getting used to the area, unpacking, meeting new friends, and keeping busy.  Once summer rolled around, we stayed inside and gamed mostly.  We'd visit the nearby beach every so often in the evenings.  We fell in love with San Diego and California. In July, my back issues got worse and I was bedridden the entire month. I left bed to shower and use the bathroom, that was it. It eventually got a bit better so that I could function.  Then, after finding a new place to live further inland in August, we had another move coming up on September 5th. 

On September 4th, I had to go to the hospital.  I was in an immense amount of pain and asked Evan to stop packing up our home and take me. I had five gallstones and had to have my gallbladder removed.  On September 5th, the day we were supposed to move, after a night in the hospital alone, they removed it. Evan's dad flew down from Portland and our friends (thank you Jim, Michele, Jason, Brooke, and Alyssa) helped him pack the rest and move our entire house. I came home that night. 

We settled in and things were tense. We'd already gone through a lot and the stress was wearing us down.  We fought a lot, snapped at each other, had it out over the dumbest things.  Sometimes he'd start fights out of thin air.  I'm no saint either, I'm not the easiest person to live with..surprised eh?! At the end of the day, we still kissed each other and said "I love you", but it felt empty.

A quick sidebar here.. Evan and I have always leaned toward an open relationship.  We don't actively look for people to sleep with, but if the opportunity presents itself and we find someone attractive, it's not off the table.  Poly relationships are as complicated or simple as those who are involved in them make it. We had a set of rules for ours and one of those rules was NO LYING. Another rule was that if we are interested in someone, we make sure that our spouse is okay with us sleeping with that person BEFORE it happens.  In these types of relationships, trust is of the utmost importance, more than a traditional relationship because there are others involved. There can't be jealousy, lying, breaking rules, or deceit of any kind!  We realize this isn't for everyone, we realize other people are confused by it.  We also realize that many people don't understand it.  There's a stigma attached and it's ridiculous. We don't speak on it because of the judgement that ALWAYS comes with it.  Please, if you run across someone in this type of lifestyle, don't judge them because you wouldn't want to be judged for your life choices either.  Moving on...

In early October, we met our friend Skylar's [Affinity's] roommates, Dale and Corrynn. They were gamers like us and we're really cool to be around so we started hanging out with him. We visited them in Corona, CA, went to Knott's Scary [Berry] Farm together, celebrated Evans birthday together, etc.  We were quickly good friends and had a good time together.  Thanksgiving was rolling around and we decided to do "Friendsgiving" at their house in Corona.  After we ate, there were many drinks involved and we were all having a good time.  Then, Skylar and I caught Evan and Corrynn kissing each other in a bedroom away from the group.

Obviously, I was pissed off.  Evan knew the rules that he and I set, and he knew better than to kiss her behind my back when he could've done it in front of me if he'd just asked!  I gathered our things and we left to drive 2 hours back home (I was sober at this point). We were 30 minutes out when I found out from Skylar, who found out from Corrynn, the unthinkable: On November 13th, Evan and Corrynn slept together.  I won't go into details or the who-what-etc. 

I was devastated.  I've never cried like that in my entire life.  I couldn't keep food down, which is a big deal for a fatty like me. Over the next week, I lost 10 lbs.  This was the lowest moment of my life with a nagging, dark depression.  Late at night, I would leave our bed and go into our walk-in closet to cry.  I thought about killing myself multiple times and wished that I had the guts to do it.  I thought that all the pain I felt could just be gone in a flash. I wouldn't wish that feeling on any person.

As soon as we got home that night, we talked.  We cried, together and apart.  Over the next week, I asked him every question I could think of. I needed every detail of what happened so that I could figure things out myself. At that point, his word meant nothing, but he swore that he'd tell me the truth and I believe he's told me the truth about everything since then. He held nothing back, even when he knew his answer would make me cry or hurt me.  He held me and told me that I should leave him, that I deserve better, that he isn't worthy of me, and that he's an idiot; all mostly true things at that point.  He told me that it took him doing something stupid to remember how lucky he is and how much he doesn't want to lose me.  He said he would do anything to fix this mistake, that he'd go to therapy or marriage counseling with me.  He was genuine and I could see that he was putting forth effort to fix things.  I've been cheated on before, by the way, and I've seen enough to know the bullshit people tell each other just to keep someone around. Evan has not half-assed a single thing in our marriage since he's said he'd do anything to fix it.  He let me lock down his phone, snoop his email, Twitter, Facebook, whatever at any time.  He's hidden nothing from me.  He now has much more freedom because I can't control his every move.  If he wants to do this again, he can easily do it no matter what I do, say, or try to control. 

This has been a rough road.  We, both of us, lost everything. We've since spent endless nights talking, crying, and working things out. Our communication is better than ever. Our sex life is unimaginably passionate, sensual, and perfect. We were taken back to the time before boot camp when our relationship was so amazing. This whole ordeal reset us in the best of ways.

It hasn't been long, but I'm still working on trusting him and will continue to do so for however long it takes.  He's doing everything I ask to earn my trust.  My anger at him is subsiding. My depression is getting better each day and I no longer feel hopeless. I am happy again, despite our failure, and so is he. I don't think I've cried in a week, which is great because it means I can finally have my tear ducts removed. :D 

The point of all this was to say to you all: don't give up. Love is not easy. It's not patient or kind. Love is a mess, marriage is insane, and nothing is ever actually perfect (it's just perfect for you)! In your relationships, you'll fall down, you'll make mistakes, and you'll sometimes fall out of love.  Marriage is about falling in love with the same person over and over again.  Marriage is about compromise, understanding, and unconditional, messy, shitty love.  

This isn't to say "hey, so you got cheated on..forgive and forget!"  I won't ever forget and there won't be a second time, either. This is just me saying that cheating doesn't always have to end your relationship or marriage. If the cheater is truly remorseful and does everything in their power to fix it, if they'll go to counseling (which we did do, btw), if they'll take your angry rants at them without saying a word because they know they fucked up...then it's possible to come back from it.  Society,  thanks largely in part to Hollywood love stories, is filled with people who think that marriage means never making mistakes, that it's all fun and games, perfect and whimsical.  It can be, but this is real life.  I will not give up on someone I love. I will not be that statistic again (I've already divorced once after 8 years with him; still very close friends with me and Evan, too)!  Marriage means working through your problems and trying to salvage your love for each other, even in the most unthinkable of times.  

Evan, you are still the wonderful man that I fell in love with years ago. We've hit our bumps and we're making our way out of the darkness.  You told me just a few days ago that I should've left you, and you couldn't have been more wrong. You are my soulmate. I still feel that electricity when you touch me.  We are stronger than we've ever been, unstoppable, you and me against the world!  We won't throw a lifetime of that away for one mistake, albeit a horrific one. If we can survive this, we can survive anything!!! And we will.

I forgive you. I love you. Happy Anniversary.


For those interested, here are some helpful links:

http://marriage.about.com/cs/infidelity/ht/unfaithful.htm

http://www.yourtango.com/experts/drerica/he-cheated-you-know-now-what-are-you-going-do

http://militaryspouse.com/military-life/my-husband-cheated-and-our-marriage-is-better-than-ever/

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/angi-becker-stevens/polyamorous-relationships_b_4370026.html

http://www.practicalpolyamory.com/images/Lemons_and_Lemonade_-_Poly_Mono_Relationships.pdf

https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/love-without-limits/201304/the-truth-about-polyamory

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheri-meyers/for-the-betrayer_b_3269327.html

http://www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org
